# Installing Minikube on Windows


Let's learn how to install the latest Minikube release on Windows 10 with VirtualBox v6.1 specifically.

NOTE: For other OS, VirtualBox, and Minikube versions, the installation steps may vary! Check the Minikube installation!

Verify the virtualization support on your Windows system (multiple output lines ending with 'Yes' indicate supported virtualization):

PS C:\WINDOWS\system32> systeminfo

Install the VirtualBox hypervisor for 'Windows hosts'
Download and install the .exe package.

NOTE: You may need to disable Hyper-V on your Windows host (if previously installed and used) while running VirtualBox.

Install Minikube
We can download the latest release or a specific release from the Minikube release page. Once downloaded, we need to make sure it is added to our PATH.

There are two .exe packages available to download for Windows found under a Minikube release:

minikube-windows-amd64.exe which requires to be added to the PATH: manually
minikube-installer.exe which automatically adds the executable to the PATH. 
Let's download and install the latest minikube-installer.exe package. 

Start Minikube
We can start Minikube using the minikube start command, that bootstraps a single-node cluster with the latest stable Kubernetes version release. For a specific Kubernetes version the --kubernetes-version option can be sued as such minikube start --kubernetes-version v1.19.0 (where latest is default and acceptable version value, and stable is also acceptable). Open the PowerShell using the Run as Administrator option and execute the following command:

PS C:\WINDOWS\system32> minikube start

ðŸ˜„  minikube v1.13.1 on Windows 10
âœ¨  Automatically selected the virtualbox driver
ðŸ’¿  Downloading VM boot image ...
ðŸ‘  Starting control plane node minikube in cluster minikube
ðŸ’¾  Downloading Kubernetes v1.19.2 preload ...
ðŸ”¥  Creating virtualbox VM (CPUs=2, Memory=3900MB, Disk=20000MB) ...
ðŸ³  Preparing Kubernetes v1.19.2 on Docker 19.03.12 ...
ðŸ”Ž  Verifying Kubernetes components...
ðŸŒŸ  Enabled addons: default-storageclass, storage-provisioner
ðŸ’¡  kubectl not found. If you need it, try: 'minikube kubectl -- get pods -A'
ðŸ„  Done! kubectl is now configured to use "minikube" by default

Check the status
We can see the status of Minikube using the minikube status command. Open the PowerShell using the Run as Administrator option and execute the following command:

PS C:\WINDOWS\system32> minikube status

minikube
type: Control Plane
host: Running
kubelet: Running
apiserver: Running
kubeconfig: Configured

Stop Minikube
We can stop Minikube using the minikube stop command. Open the PowerShell using the Run as Administrator option and execute the following command:

PS C:\WINDOWS\system32> minikube stop

Stopping node "minikube"  ...
1 nodes stopped.
